If you do, however, also want to log the user out of the authorization server,
then OpenID Connect's Session Management endpoint
is there for just that purpose.
It provides ways your client can monitor the session of the
user on the auth server and a way for them to also sign the
user out of the auth server.
And with Spring, it's super easy to set up.
On the logout builder, we can add a logoutSuccessHandler,
which will trigger when logging out of crypto‑portfolio is complete,
i.e., the session between the user's browser and crypto‑portfolio is terminated.
Then we can implement a way of logging out the user from the
authorization server in our logoutSuccessHandler; however,
Spring conveniently has implemented a logoutSuccessHandler for OpenID Connect,
which is compatible with the Session Management endpoint.
So let's create a method to return an instance of this class,
the OidcClientInitiatedLogoutSuccessHandler.
The name explains what we are doing perfectly.
Our client is initiating a logout.
All we do is set the postLogoutRedirectUri.
This is where the authorization server will redirect our user's
browser to after the logout is completed successfully.
I'll set it to just go back to the root.
Now,
you can instruct Spring Security to use this
logoutSuccessHandler via the logout builder method.
One last thing we need to do is in the Keycloak admin console,
we have to set the redirect URI in the verified redirect URIs for
that client otherwise Keycloak will reject it.
Now,
this is to prevent a malicious browser plug‑in manipulating this redirect
value and redirecting the user to some malicious site,
for example.
If we restart our application, log in, and log out,
the user has been logged out from both the application and
Keycloak and is prompted to sign in again.
This time, the user session is terminated, unlike with the prompt property.
Now,
different identity providers or authorization servers will
also have custom ways of achieving this.
For example, with Keycloak,
you can instruct the Keycloak server not to create a
session after authenticating the user.
This way, each time an authorization request reaches Keycloak,
the user will have to reauthenticate.
All you do is, in the Keycloak admin console, under Authentication,
create a new flow with cookies disabled.
Then in your client, you can override the browser auth flow to
use this new flow, hence no session and no reauthentication
for each authorization request.
Now, it's worth mentioning, Keycloak actually has great support for Spring Boot
and Spring Security, not surprising as it's based on Java.
There is a spring‑boot‑starter, and it is well documented.
This gives you closer integration; however,
this course is about OAuth,
and using the adapter will tightly couple the application to Keycloak. Okay. Next, let's wrap up.